.TH lavalauncher 1 lavalauncher-0.1
.SH NAME
LavaLauncher - A simple launcher for Wayland desktops


.SH DESCRIPTION
LavaLauncher serves a single purpose: Letting the user execute shell commands
by clicking on icons on a dynamically sized bar, placed at one of the screen
edges.
.P
The Wayland compositor must implement the Layer-Shell for LavaLauncher to work.
If LavaLauncher is displayed but wont respond to clicks, chances are that the
compositor you are using only displays Layer-Shell surfaces but does not forward
events to them.


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lavalauncher
.RB [options...]


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Enable aggressive anchoring.
Some compositors, like sway, do not respect the exclusive area of layer surfaces
that are only anchored to less then three sides. Aggressive anchoring will
always anchor the bar surface to three sides to work around this. Be aware that
this causes some compositors to believe that LavaLauncher uses the entire width
or height of the screen. This feature makes use of layer surface margins for
centering the bar. The margin of a layer surface can apparently not be larger
than the layer surfaces length parallel to it, so when the bar is small the
centering might not work correctly.

.TP
.B \-b <path> <command>
Add a button. Path is the path to a PNG image file. It is recommended to use
square images. Command is the shell command executed when the user clicks on the
button. If the given command is "exit", LavaLauncher will exit. LavaLauncher
being able to close itself means that a user can launch instances that are
meant to be temporary, which opens up many interesting possibilities, like
having a main bar which launches smaller bars as sub-menus, or using
LavaLauncher as a menu for scripted actions.
.TP
.B \-c <colour>
Colour of the bar in the format #RRGGBBAA.
.TP
.B \-C <colour>
Colour of the border in the format #RRGGBBAA.
.TP
.B \-h
Display a helpful help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-l <overlay|top|bottom|background>
Layer the bar surface.
.TP
.B \-p <top|right|bottom|left>
Position of the bar.
.TP
.B \-s <size>
Width of the bar in pixel.
.TP
.B \-S <size>
Width of the border in pixel.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose output.


.SH EXAMPLE
lavalauncher
\-b /home/leon/.config/icons/firefox.png firefox
\-b /home/leon/.config/icons/glenda.png acme
\-p bottom
\-s 80
\-S 2
\-c "#20202088"
\-C "#FFFFFFFF"


.SH MAILINGLIST
You can send bug reports, patches and feedback to the mailinglist.

.B <~leon_plickat/lavalauncher@lists.sr.ht>


.SH AUTHORS
Leon Plickat <leonhenrik.plickat@stud.uni-goettingen.de>
